## To start the backend:
- Build the client-side files using `yarn build` on the `client` directory
- Run `npm install` on the `server` directory, then run `npm run start`
- The website will now be available on localhost:9000.

This assumes you have a MySQL database running, and have a `.env` file in place of `.env.sample` with the
needed information. `sample_database_dump.sql` is a file SQL can read that initializes a test database.

---

# API Endpoints

All endpoints should be prefixed with `/api`, and return JSON data.

The server might set the `connect.sid` cookie sometimes. If you are not a browser, keep track of this,
as this is how the server identifies you, and therefore lets you access protected endpoints.

The sample SQL database lets you test user authentication with user `abacaba123` and pass `SpeedIAmSpeed`.

## Gameplay

### `GET` `/code`

Fetch a code snippet. 

This returns an array with a single element, representing a code snippet object. This is an object containing:

- `id`: an integer, the ID of the code snippet,
- `language`: a URL-encoded string, the language the code is written in
- `code`: the code itself.

Supports the optional parameter `?lang=` to indicate a language for the snippet to fetch.

## User Statistics

### `POST` `/stats/upload/[snippetid]/[speed]wpm/[accuracy]`

Upload a score on the snippet with ID `snippetid`, with `speed` WPM and an accuracy of `accuracy`.
If the request is made with a valid login, associate this performance with the currently logged-in User.
Return the resulting Score object. This is an object containing:

- `snippetid`: an integer, the ID of the code snippet,
- `playid`: an integer, the ID of the performance,
- `acc`: a decimal, the accuracy of the performance,
- `speed`: an integer, the WPM of the performance,
- `userid`: the user ID of the associated user. If one does not exist, output `null`.
- `time`: a Unix timestamp of the time the score was uploded. This is generated by the server.
- `context`: a string that is either `Solo` or `Multiplayer`, the
  conditions by which a score can be registered. This is `Solo` for
  plays made through this endpoint (subject to change).

### `GET` `/stats/summary/[username]`

Returns an object representing summary statistics for the games played by `username`.
This is an object containing:

- `speed`: an object containing 2 attributes: `average` and `maximum`, indicating the average and maximum 
    WPM of the user's plays over time.
- `accuracy`: an object containing 2 attributes: `average` and `maximum`, indicating the average
    and maximum accuracy of the user's plays over time.
- `playcount`: an integer: the total amount of plays by the user.

### `GET` `/stats/scorelist/[username]`

Obtain a partial list of the user's scores. This endpoint takes two optional parameters, `?from=` (default 0) and
`?count=` (default 20). Returns an object containing:

- `playcount`: an integer: the total amount of plays by the user.
- `score_window`: the requested scores. This is a list containing `count` Score objects, the `i`th of which
    is the `from + i`th most recent play by the user. This list may be filtered by some other
    parameters this endpoint accepts, which are described in detail below.

Accepts the following optional parameters:
- `?from=` (default 0) The starting point from which to enumerate `score_window`.
- `?count=` (default 20, maximum 20 (subject to change)) The number of scores to list in `score_window`.
- `?lang=` Filter for plays that were made only using snippets in this language.
- `?context=` (Only accepts either `Solo` or `Multiplayer`) Filter for plays made in either solo mode or multiplayer mode.


## Authentication

### `POST` `/register`

Register a new user to the website. Accepts `username` and `password` parameters via form-encoded input.

If there already exists a user in the database, the return code will be `409`. Otherwise, return
a User object corresponding to the newly registered user. This is an object containing:
    - `username`: the username of the user.

### `POST` `/authuser`

Login. Accepts `username` and `password` parameters via form-encoded input.

If the authentication succeeds, return a User object.
Otherwise, the return code is `401`, and the return value is an object of the
form `{message: [error message]}`

### `GET` `/user/[username]/testauth`

This is a protected endpoint.

If you are not logged in as `[username]`, the return code is `401`,  and the return value is an object of the
form `{message: [error message]}`. If you are, return a single string containing `Auth OK`.

### `GET` `/current-login`

If there is a valid login, return the User that login corresponds to. If not, return `null`.

### `POST` `/logout`

Destroy the current session, if there exists one.

---

# Database Layout

```
CREATE TABLE `code_snippet` (
  `id` int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `language` varchar(20) NOT NULL,
  `code` varchar(2000) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`)
);

CREATE TABLE `user` (
  `id` int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
  `username` varchar(45) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`id`),
  UNIQUE KEY `id_UNIQUE` (`id`)
)

CREATE TABLE `user_password` (
  `userid` int NOT NULL,
  `password_hash` varchar(200) NOT NULL,
  PRIMARY KEY (`userid`),
  UNIQUE KEY `userid_UNIQUE` (`userid`),
  CONSTRAINT `fk_userid` FOREIGN KEY (`userid`) REFERENCES `code_snippet` (`id`) ON DELETE CASCADE
)
```

---

# On Testing

[Jest](https://jestjs.io/) is used to facilitate automated testing. The tests assume that
the MySQL database is running, with a database whose title matches the `TEST_DATABASE_NAME` environment variable.
(This must be different from `DATABASE_NAME`, but the check can be avoided if there is a need.)
A backup of the current contents of the `TEST_DATABASE_NAME` database is made before running the tests.

The tests assume that you have `mysqldump` and `mysql` accessible on the command line. If not,
tweak the relevant functions in `tests/setup.js` to fit your needs.
